---json
{
"metadata": {
  "title": "(In)Visible Labor",
  "subtitle" : "Understanding Roles and Responsibilities in Dance and Computing",
  "author": "Jessica Rajko",
  "type": "Invited Speaker",
  "phase": "Spring",
  "thumbnail": "/img/ivlabor.jpg",
   "links": [{
    "title":"Jessica Rajko website",
    "link" : "https://www.jessicarajko.com/"
  }]
},
"resources": [{
    "title": "Digital Culture Speaker Series:(In)Visible Labor: Understanding Roles and Responsibilities in Dance",
    "type" : "youtube",
    "id" : "Ox4IBDUF5VE",
    "description": "live talk streamed in conjunction with ASU Digital Culture Speaker Series."
}]
}
---

Since the turn of the 21st century, interest in the cross-pollination of
computing and dance has broadened across both research domains. Growing
activity in what this presentation describes as the field of dance and
computing often defines itself both in relation to and distinct from the
broader field of dance and technology. In this, designating research as
within/outside the dance and computing field is not so easy. In some
respects, the nimble and nebulous nature of what comprises dance and
computing research serves the field. Its broad reaching affiliations
accommodate a wide variety of research questions and collaborative
relationships. However, even as dance and computing research stretches and
moves across boundaries constructed by their perspective areas of
practice, some key structures, methods, and communities have begun to etch
a boundary between of what is(n’t) generally understood as dance and
computing. These tacit thresholds mostly created through a repetition of
practice and presentation, influence not only what but who is(n’t) seen as
doing the work of the field.

In this presentation, we will discuss both what is and could be considered
dance and computing research by looking at the activity of those working
in and around the field. Our conversation will be informed by a large
corpus study comprised of 135 papers extracted from the Association of
Computing Machinery (ACM) Digital Library using the general keyword search
term “dancer.” Using the corpus analysis as a launching point, we will
review emergent trends and notable gaps found within the data. This
analysis will be woven with an in-depth, and slightly humorous exploration
of contemporary trends in robotics and dance research, including a review
of recent efforts by Boston Dynamics to make their robots dance. Through
both a macro analysis of broad trends and an in-depth case study of
dancing robots, this presentation describes and navigates structures
rooted in both dance and computing that influence who and what is seen as
doing the labor of dance and computing research.
